Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;

1. Start with adding the desired amount of coffee grounds into a coffee
   paper funnel
2. Place the paper funnel into the coffee machine funnel area
3. Add the required amount of water into the tank resevoir or coffee pot
4. Set the machine button to 'on'
5. After the coffee pot is filled, add to cup

Washing dishes;

1. Add soap to a sponge
2. Turn on the water faucet
3. When the water is hot enough, hold dish in one hand
4. With the other hand, use the wet sponge to go over the dish to clean off food
5. When it is cleaned off, rinse off dish with the running water
6. Place the wet dish in a rack to dry off
7. Proceed to next dish with steps 4 - 6
8. Finish all the dishes

Making toast;

1. Take a piece of bread and place into the toaster
2. When the toaster beeps, take out bread
3. Take out butter from refrigerator
4. Open the butter package
5. Grab a butter knife
6. In one hand, hold the bread; in the other the knife
7. Use the knife to put a piece of butter on the bread
8. Spread the butter on the bread all over with the knife


As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem.
It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies
who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It
doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's
algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your
cases make them stand out?

eBay stands out as the first, major platform for online auctioning. The algorithms for bidding,
ease of use, and widespread use revolutionized the way buying and selling could be done online.
Roomba's algorithm solves the problem of self-cleaning. It was the first of its kind of product,
a robotic vacuum that runs automatically. Blue Apron is a popular food kit subscription. Their
algorithm for cooking dinner is what makes them successful. They provide everything needed to
create a meal including instructions, all sent to the consumers house.



Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An algorithm should follow a sequence of logical steps; it should accomplish a goal, and
execute it in an allotted amount of time. An inefficient algorithm would deviate from
these requirements. The steps might not be set in a logical manner. Or the amount of
time that it takes to complete might not be efficient.
